Readme file by Kevin Heiden
{
Creating file  (_100%_)

Inserting research (_77%_)  DONE
Opinon loaded (100%)  based on facts? (Y/N)

No?

Uploading images (99%)  ERROR   
File named: Fuck_this_iam_so_tired " seems to have units that are not apropiate for this file. 
Redo?  (Y/N)

Yes -.-

File renamed:  I_love_hacking_by_Kevin_van_der_Heiden

Title found:  Hacking manifesto.

END

}

select a list of keywords/ glossary about what Hacking is/ can be (tip: re-read the manifesto);

After reading the manifesto we had been given, we came to the conclusion that these 5 words:
xenofemenism
The idea of a new wave of feminism, with its secret tool to use technology and science to base its views and values on. Also including the rejection of naturalism to get more equality and a force to take down the toxic masculinity in the established patriarchy of the modern world.
naturalism
A naturalistic way of thinking is based on the facts and logic that comes with our bioligy and nature that surounds us. We are born as girls and boys and there fore we are different and strive for different goals in life. Xenofemenism looks down on this way of thinking, they think everything is a social system, even the names we gave to nature. We humans try to force everything in little cages to understand the world, XF tries to get rid of these and open our minds.
emancipation
Gaining cetrain political rights and power.
technoscience
We humans are constantly striving for technical innovation. Technoscience is the process and result of these innovations. Xenofemnism uses technoscience to give its values strength, tho beeing a hypocrit to first say that their against naturalism, whitch is mostly based on scientific research.
patriarchy
The idea that the world is led by man. Altough right now there are more man in politial spectrum and better payed jobs, its not their fault of beeing in this posiition. Woman take up 51% of the population, their in the majority, they could vote for woman to be in these political positions. If they had a woman to choose from if that is, because most woman arent interested in a job in the politics, and rather work in lower payed jobs by choise like health care. Of course there is still discrimination against woman, but you cant point your finger at a system and shout: system bad! and excpect that to change everything. Matters most of the time are more complex in that regard..



{
2. write down a reflection paragraph on the observational tool exercises (tip: you can link to images/ drawings);
}





Lecture:
Modes of inspection: observing, noticing and intervening:
To see- three dimensional world through the eyes
To look begin to notice phenomena, and distinguish between them.
To watch - The brains begin to organize one's sight
To observe - the ultimate level, intelligens, an ordered and lucid internal knowledge.
To view - On the other hand, is a way of looking that involves a threat, expectation.

WHAT IF YOU WOULD INSPECT WITH OTHER SENSES? WHAT IF THE EYES ARE DISTRIBUTED  AND ALL SENSES COME BACK TO TOUCH?

Affordance → all action possibilities depending on users physical capabilities.
            A glass of water is different where its in its liquid state or vaporized state.
Different objects are able to interact different with then was internatily intended to be used. 
Manipulate behaviour of people that can only use objects one way.
An objects affordances depend on users physical capabilities and their goals and past experiences. A chair only affords sitting, because past experience supports that action.

→ So how can i as an artist look at different objects and human behaviour and try to make a new system or hack that system out of those 2 elements. 

Affordance it's neither an objective property, nor a subjective property or its both if you like.
An affordance cuts across the dichotomy of subjective objective and helps us to understand its inadequacy. It is equally a fact of the environment and a fact of behavior. An affordance points both ways, to the environment and to the observer.

INTERFACES:

You have different interfaces on multiple levels.


Circle maker
[https://www.google.com/search?q=sirkel+cutter+tool&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiorp_Ix7HiAhXFDuwKHQPuC_4Q_AUIDigB&biw=1863&bih=950#imgrc=E3_KjU5TwkNU4M:]
The tool viewpoint:
{ Iam extendable, with a click my right arm is relocated over a part of my body }
{ Iam stiff but exact. I Turn around and make beautiful circles, drawing or cutout }
{ No other shape. I have an extension where people can hold grip}                      
{ I have a secret little area were i hold my knifes and charcoal. Iam mostly not used, just for special occasions}
{People don't need a lot of circles in their life, takes to much effort i guess. Iam seen often as a ruler, or measure tool. I Am not, i am an tool of art. Of perfection.}
                                 >>>>     [https://imgur.com/gallery/f83J29e]    <<<<
{I'm too perfect, that means not a lot of others can relate to me}
{I am just able to do one think, which i am really good at and others love me for that}
{I Am easily adjustable, able to bend to someone's wishes to create the circle they like} 
{I sometimes am closed of, living in my small circle, but sometimes i draw huge to express} {my joy, and in the end i embody them all because they are the expression from what iam}
{Iam square but make the opposite.}





Reflection:
- The blinking helped me see how the object itself its an contradictonairy from what it is used for (square and circles)
- By feeling the object, i didn’t really learn anything other then that the point is pretty sharp.
- The object itself is an interesting object because of its perfection and acuaray as a tool, making such perfect circles, but makes it an unrelatable object.


Weegschaal.

{People stand on me and i'm sick of it}
{I make people unhappy, make them feel fat}
{I also make people more healthy and i'm necessary to tell that message}
{I Am a scale of healthiness and a tool to fool people}
{Iam digital and practical}

interesting how the light reflects differently from it.
Its an heavy object itself, an i never thought about how i was feeling the weight of a weighting tool. It's an interesting tool to speculate about
The weighting tool is actually pretty sad if you think about it. 

Why did you bring your tool?
        - It's a 2 way use of information → making circles and measuring circles 

What are the differences between your tools?
The obvious differences were that the weighting tool records Kilograms and the circle tool records length. But the big difference is that the circle tool also creates, and the weighting tool can’t do that, it is simply there to record. 

REFLECTION ON THIS EXERCISE:

This exercise sure was interesting, the way we looked at an object in a different way by blinking really fast or just feeling it with our eyes closed gave me a feeling of mindfulness. The way you focus on a object can erase all the worries out of you head and really connect with that mysterious tool in your hand. 

Because of this the exercise where we had to think for the object and create thoughts and memories for it was way more easy because you got to know the object before hand. At first i thought what i was doing was ridiculous, but gradually i understood what the value was. 

I also see how this reflects back on the experiment with the door. How can an door be used in other ways? Everyone has a different way to open a door, a system that works for them. Do we also all see objects differently? Do we feel different and can we use this to our advantage by hacking it. Hack the senses, let people feel what you feel or experience something completely different. I love this philosophical, scientific way of looking at the world. You analyze but then see how you can turn it into another system. There is a lot of fantasy and hypothesizing in this. This practise has me interested.. 

Grow the keywords/ glossary about what Hacking is (tip: add your own references);
Hacking is interrupting a (dynamic) system in a way that it was not meant too. Interrupting can be disrupting the system, gathering information from it, re laying its roots and adding to it. Its manipulating a system where either its dynamic input and output change, or by destroying it you discontinue the flow to the output, resulting in that another systems is affected by that. If you cut off the flow of water to a village, that village system is affected by it and will change its roots. 
As Shailoh said, a system is constantly leaking energy, they are alive. They can be expanded and manipulated, the boundaries can be pushed. 
In the documentary: “The search for sugar man”, a man named  Malik Bendjelloul went on looking for a unlikely superstar Rodriguez, a man that only became famous in a small part of the world, but never got global fame and was forgotten in time. Malik went searching for him, but after months of no results, the film company backing him took away all his film equipment and he had to rely on his iphone.  
He hacked his way through this documentary, filming with a vintage filter to record the remaining film he needed.
                          >>>>>     [ https://imgur.com/ch3jI31]   <<<<<

It shows that being Limited tends to make you creative. For him, his system was Eliminated to only his iphone. 

                                                         



Last lesson:
This lesson we were really questioning what hacking really was. What is its purpose and when is a person really hacking.

Does hacking need to have a purpose
just adjusting something isn’t necessary hacking

We questioned if freezing a woman's unfertilized egg for later use a form is of hacking.

My opinion: Yes, i would call this hacking in its greatest form. Its adjusting the system of nature itself. You break the laws, the egg should not leave the human body until its a full grown baby, now you take it out, put it in a human made machine and keep it until the woman is ready to get it implanted, while she isn’t supposed to get children anymore. Its hacking life itself, it's really interesting. 
If an system or idea becomes to normalised, its by many not considered hacking anymore, because it's not pushing boundaries anymore. I do agree with this statement, since in itself becomes a system to be hacked again. 
What does hacking mean to me?
Hacking for me was always the computer hacking we know out of series and all that kind of good stuff. It was a tool to get information, get access to something or to disrupt something.

Now my vision of hacking is changed. I see now that everywhere we look, there are systems to be hacked. Organic, mechanic, spatial, electronic or social, all these systems exist and and are hackable. I am starting to understand that our entire human society is a system and is hackable, we made up a system that works best for us, but is also flawed in many ways.
=Hacking for me =
I have been thinking about how hacking comes back in my own life and how it affects me.
The first thing that comes to mind is the drugs i take. And i talk mostly about coffee here. It hacks your brain to feel more awake and also taking a cigarette reduces stress. Its hacking your body with a tool. Its funny to look at your body in that way, especially in the lesson where we had to rearrange our body parts and hack your body structure. So many possibilites. It reminds me of the doctor who altered the genes of babies so that they were HIV immune. That doctor is in hiding right now because his practise was illigal, but that's what hacking about, pushing boundaries. 
I also in my field like to practise hacking. I love hacking reality, in the visual way. I am pretty good at making AR but also VR work. I hack reality by creating an altering space in the virual world where people can live in, but i can also make a fake animation layer over taped reality where video and animation collide and create an alternate reality. The input is the view of what people see and their reaction is the output. That is the social system, but iam also hacking the biological system, the eyes are deceived and think fake images are real. Its like porn and sex, the brain thinks their the same but its tricked. And at last we have the technical system, i literally have to hack my OCULUS GO to get to be able to work on it. Only real professional get to work on the OCULUS GO but there is a way to hack around that and be able to upload your files onto it. Virtual reality is a powerful hacking tool, but it has its huge technical limitations that can’t just be adjusted. Still Oculus is busy hacking its own systems and pushing boundaries to make their product cheaper and easier to handle. Like removing cables and introducing tracking systems inside the headset rather than outside. That's why Virtual reality is so interesting to me, because both software and hardware are in development and still require a lot of hacking to get it to perfection. 

S/yste/ms and S.C/.A__.M.P.E.R 










